---
layout: page
author: Adrian
---

_I wrote this in class and I needed something I could put up on here, this lowkey needs some_
_work towards the end but thats just because I was trying to fit everything I could into 5 pages,_
_Some of the claims I make towards the end are very very barren but i dont mind wtv_


The cells of capitalist production push and pull the strings of capital. Marx sought to capture and dissect these fractals of capitalist existence in the book Capital. Published after the communist manifesto, Marx was answering the question: What does it mean for labor relations to obfuscate themselves? More importantly, why does the result of production not seem to arm the proletarian? This paper aims to explore money as the vessel that capital relies on to reproduce itself; that money as the ultimate commodity is responsible for the creation and upkeep of capital. 

The commodity is the contradiction that arises when the product of labor from pre-capitalist society enters the fray of modern society. “Every product of labour is, in all states of society, a use value; but it is only at a definite historical epoch in a society’s development that such a product becomes a commodity.” [1] The commodity as “an object outside us”[1] has always existed, but it is the confrontation of the use value vs the exchange value which creates the commodity as the subject of capitalist exchange. The point of contention at the centre of the commodity as a subject, specifically, is the fact that exchange value can not exist without use value “Nothing can have value without being an object of utility”[1]. However, in the process of capitalist exchange “the only value commodities can manifest”[1] is that of the exchange value. It is helpful to reference the diagram shown in class as a graphical aid, which elucidates these antagonisms and their respective interactions. The diagram is presented as a series of loops, the first being showing the commodity sitting directly in the middle of the material(use value) at the top and immaterial(exchange value) below, the hierarchy of its representation then defines the commodity as the difference in the loop but also the vertex of creation between the two machines. 

Caught between the fricative gears of creation the microorganism (commodity) is thrust into the realm of values. The realm of value presents a new antagonism; a looping mechanism similar to that of commodity. In the residues of this interaction ‘‘common to them all” is the fact that they are crystalizing “Values.”[1]  Commodity, once in the camp of value is subjected to the utmost interrogation of its identity after all, the commodity “has value only because human labour in the abstract has been embodied or materialised in it”[1] Marx describes commodity as the embodiment of two types of human labor; concrete labor and abstract labor. Which in terms of the graphical loop, creates and defines value as “ the amount of labour socially necessary.”[1]  Due to the social relation between laborers, all labor is reduced to “human labor in the abstract”[1]; the conditions of which are supported by the many discrete materialisations in the genealogy of the commodity. However, the commodity still requires labor, otherwise known as concrete labor, which acts as a force that unites the material assemblages of the commodity. Marx refers to this interaction as the twofold character of labor. 

From this established labor dichotomy, a new proposition emerges, the prerequisite for the formation of labor. Nothing can possibly be of value without exchange “In order to produce the latter, he must not only produce use values, but use values for others, social use values.”[1] Akin to the existence of the aforementioned value and commodity microorganisms, the institution (exchange) is not dissimilar, in that it also creates within itself a larger contradiction. Again these contradictions split off into a material/immaterial relationship, with relative value and equivalent value at the respective poles. The relative value is the congealed commodity within itself while the equivalent form is the representation of the commodity itself (i.e. relative:20ft linen; equivalent:1 wool coat) Marx then expands this definition into its most general form, “relative value, embracing the whole world of commodities, converts the single commodity that is excluded from the rest, and made to play the part of equivalent – here the linen – into the universal equivalent. The bodily form of the linen is now the form assumed in common by the values of all commodities; it therefore becomes directly exchangeable with all and every of them.”[1] Even at its most general form where the relative and equivalent are in relation to all existing commodities (Hegelian good infinity) a fatal contradiction reveals a polarizing relationship between the relative and equivalent. The linen and the wool coat can no longer be interdependent, “The commodity that figures as universal equivalent, is, on the other hand, excluded from the relative value form.”[1] From this arises the need for a universal exchange value, the money commodity.

Marx defines money as  “the commodity that functions as a measure of value, and, either in its own person or by a representative, as the medium of circulation.” [1] The critical function of money is to resolve the contradictions of commodity exchange. In other words, the commodity can not meet its function without money, thus there also emerges a social function of money. All vectors of production converge towards the “social monopoly, to play within the world of commodities” which allows money to play “the part of the universal equivalent.”[1] Now all production must be able to be written with money, the wage and its snarling, glowing teeth is now not only the only form of payment but also “the individual incarnation of social labour.”[1]  All facets of social relations and productive relations are also rewritten with the codes of money: “The bourgeoisie has torn away from the family its sentimental veil, and has reduced the family relation to a mere money relation.” [2]  The tendency of reproduction appears to tend towards infinity, but it’s important to note that the limit of reproduction is capitalist exchange itself, in times of crisis the contradiction reveals itself: “The use-value of commodities becomes valueless, and their value vanishes in the presence of its own independent form.”[1] Capitalist exploitation binds itself to the money relation, the valorization of value is what allows the bourgeoisie to extract surplus value from the laborer, for “No sooner is the exploitation of the labourer by the manufacturer, so far, at an end, that he receives his wages in cash, than he is set upon by the other portions of the bourgeoisie.” [2] 

Exploitation allows for the institutionalization of commodity fetishism, “A commodity is therefore a mysterious thing, simply because in it the social character of men’s labour appears to them as an objective character stamped upon the product of that labour.”[1] Money is the stamp placed upon the commodity, the universal valueless value that defines the product. This is what helps further isolate the proletariat from itself, the mystification of productive relations which are overwritten as commodity relations. In class, we discussed a network of productive relations whose underbelly reveals societal separation as a result of commodity fetishism. In a pre-capitalist society the reproduction of the relations of production occurred organically through the relations of each laborer. In the capitalist society this must take on a new form to ensure the stability of that modus described in class. The set conditions of fetishism is what takes up this new form, allowing reproduction to proceed in the direction of alienation “since wages represents only that part of the value produced by the expenditure of labour power which is indispensable for its reproduction.”[3] The goal of this form is then to create distance between the workers, the output of their production and each other. This is the importance of exploitation in the creation of the space necessary for fetishism; part of the extreme feedback loop of capitalist production is the return of fetishism to exploitation. Through fetishism the true value of production can be obscured via the wage, this is because the outputs of production have been rewritten using the money relation. Even the process of production has been encoded with money via the wage. It is then up to the bourgeois, after adhering to a given historical minimum, to pay the worker the lowest wage that would result in the largest extraction of value(surplus value).  Through this accumulation of money, the conditions are able to repeat themselves into itself eventually giving the bourgeois the ability to convert this accumulation to capital.

Marx states that the nature of commodities is one of large mysticism, a subject of strangeness and distortion at the hands of the bourgeoisie. The secret to the mystification of the commodity, is in the money relation. Money itself exists as the resolution to a series of contradictions that arise during capitalist production. Money is what allows the capitalist to reproduce capital, and the relations of the exploited. It is through these schisms that capital manages to place itself as a limit to production and give the bourgeoisie the tools to dominate the organization of the proletariat. As a result the job of the proletarian is to disseminate the conditions of exploitation by returning to the product of labor its full subjective potential.




Citations:
[1] 	Marx, Karl. Das Kapital. Edited by Friedrich Engels, Progress Publishers, Moscow, USSR, 1867. Marxists Internet Archive, www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1867-c1.
[2]	Engels, Friedrich, and Karl Marx. The Communist Manifesto. Marx/Engels Selected Works, Vol. One, Progress Publishers, Moscow, 1969, pp. 98-137;, 1848. Marxists Internet Archive. https://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1848/communist-manifesto.
[3]	Althusser, Louis. "Ideology and Ideological State Apparatuses (Notes towards an Investigation)." Lenin and Philosophy and Other Essays, Monthly Review Press, 1971. Marxists Internet Archive, www.marxists.org/reference/archive/althusser/1970/ideology.htm.
